Added JDBC source pg and JDBC connector modes (#390)
aiven/devportal: docs/products/kafka/kafka-connect/concepts/jdbc-source-modes.rst

JDBC source connector modes
===========================

JDBC source connector extracts data from a relational database, such as PostgreSQL or MySQL, and pushes it to Apache Kafka where can be transformed and read by multiple consumers. The details of the connector are covered in the `Aiven JDBC source connector GitHub documentation <https://github.com/aiven/jdbc-connector-for-apache-kafka/blob/master/docs/source-connector.md>`_. 

This connector type periodically queries the table(s) to extract the data, and can be configured in four **modes**.

Bulk mode
---------

In ``bulk`` mode the connector will periodically query the full table retrieving all the rows and publishing them into the Apache Kafka topic.
Thus, if the source table contains ``100.000`` rows, the connector will insert ``100.000`` new messages in the Apache Kafka topic for every poll, no matter how many rows in the database are new or stale.

.. Tip::

  Since the bulk mode replicates the whole table content into the Apache Kafka topic at every poll, it's a suitable option only for tables with limited amount of data which don't have any incremental or timestamp column.

Incrementing mode
-----------------

> Using the ``incrementing`` mode, the connector will query the table appending a `WHERE` condition based on a **incrementing column** to fetch the new rows. The incrementing mode requires the presence in the source table of a column containing an always growing number (like a series). The incrementing column is used to check which rows have been added since last query. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the ``incrementing`` mode, the connector will query the table and append a `WHERE` condition based on an **incrementing column** in order to fetch new rows. The incrementing mode requires that a column containing an always growing number (like a series) is present in the source table. The incrementing column is used to check which rows have been added since last query. 
```

.. Note::

  The column name is passed via the ``incrementing.column.name`` parameter

If for example the database ``students`` table contains the following entries:

.. list-table::
  :header-rows: 1
  :align: left

  * - ``student_id``
    - ``student_name``
  * - 1
    - ``Jon Doe``
  * - 2
    - ``Mary English``
  * - 3
    - ``Carol Tunder``

> The column ``student_id`` can be used as incremental column. On the first poll, the Kafka connector will select all rows from the table and record the maximum ``student_id`` value in the table, ``3`` in the above example. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The column ``student_id`` can be used as an incremental column. On the first poll, the Apache Kafka connector will select all rows from the table and record the maximum ``student_id`` value in the table (``3`` in the above example). 
```

> The following polls will append a ``WHERE`` condition to the query selecting only rows with ``student_id`` greater than the previously recorded maximum value. In the example below, the condition will be ``WHERE student_id > 3``. If new records are available in the table, then the highest value for the incremental column is stored, and used as filter for the following polls. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following polls will append a ``WHERE`` condition to the query selecting only rows with ``student_id`` greater than the previously recorded maximum value. In the example below, the condition will be ``WHERE student_id > 3``. If the new records are available in the table, then the highest value for the incremental column is stored, and used as filter for the following polls. 
```

.. list-table::
  :header-rows: 1
  :align: left

  * - ``student_id``
    - ``student_name``
  * - 1
    - ``Jon Doe``
  * - 2
    - ``Mary English``
  * - 3
    - ``Carol Tunder``
  * - **6**
    - ``Sam Cricket``

> In the case above, where a new row for ``Sam Cricket`` is added, a new record will be sent to the Apache Kafka topic, and the maximum ``student_id`` value will be updated to ``6`` and used as where condition in the following polls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the case above, where a new row for ``Sam Cricket`` is added, a new record will be sent to the Apache Kafka topic, and the maximum ``student_id`` value will be updated to ``6`` and used in ``WHERE`` condition in the next polls.
```

.. Warning::

  With the incremental mode, any change which doesn't generate rows with an id higher than the maximum recorded in the previous poll will **not** be detected. E.g. updating the ``student_name`` without changing the ``student_id`` will not generate any new records in Apache Kafka. 

Timestamp mode
--------------

> Using the ``timestamp`` mode, the connector will query the table appending a ``WHERE`` condition based one or more **timestamp columns**. This requires the presence of one or more columns containing the row's creation date and modification date. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the ``timestamp`` mode, the connector will query the table appending a ``WHERE`` condition based on one or more **timestamp columns**. This requires that creation date and modification date are present for every row. 
```

> Using the ``timestamp`` mode, the connector will query the table appending a ``WHERE`` condition based one or more **timestamp columns**. This requires the presence of one or more columns containing the row's creation date and modification date. 

Reviewer: Do we always need two of those properties - creation and modification?

In cases of two columns (e.g. ``creation_date`` and ``modification_date``) the polling query will apply the ``COALESCENCE`` function, parsing the value of the second column only when the first column is null. 

.. Tip::
  
  The timestamp column(s) is passed via the ``timestamp.column.name parameter``.

> If for example the database ``students`` table contains the following entries:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If, for example, the database ``students`` table contains the following entries:
```

> If for example the database ``students`` table contains the following entries:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, if the database ``students`` table contains the following entries:
```

Reviewer 2: I got confused here. Not sure what makes sense.

.. list-table::
  :header-rows: 1
  :align: left

  * - ``student_id``
    - ``student_name``
    - ``created_date``
    - ``modified_date``
  * - 1
    - ``Jon Doe``
    - 2021-01-01
    -
  * - 2
    - ``Mary English``
    - 2021-03-01
    - 2021-04-05
  * - 3
    - ``Carol Tunder``
    - 2021-03-02
    - 2021-04-06

> The columns ``created_date`` and ``modified_date`` can be used as timestamp columns. On the first poll, the Kafka connector will select all rows from the table and record the value in the ``modified_date`` and ``created_date`` columns, ``2021-04-06`` in the above example. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The columns ``created_date`` and ``modified_date`` can be used as timestamp columns. On the first poll, the Kafka connector will select all rows from the table and record the value in the ``modified_date`` and ``created_date`` columns (``2021-04-06`` in the above example). 
```

JDBC source connector modes
===========================

JDBC source connector extracts data from a relational database, such as PostgreSQL or MySQL, and pushes it to Apache Kafka where can be transformed and read by multiple consumers. 

> This connector type periodically queries the table(s) to extract the data, and can be configured in four main **modes**:

Author: removed main

* ``bulk``: the connector will query the full table every time retrieving all rows and publishing them into the Apache Kafka topic

> * ``incrementing``: the connector will query the table appending a `WHERE` condition based on a **incrementing column**. This requires the presence of a column containing an always growing number (like a series). The incrementing column is used to check which rows have been added since last query. 

Reviewer: Now as the headers we use what should be put under ``mode`` property when executing commands, but I think it would be better to use proper header and be specific that the ``mode`` should be set to ``bulk`` or other string.

> * ``incrementing``: the connector will query the table appending a `WHERE` condition based on a **incrementing column**. This requires the presence of a column containing an always growing number (like a series). The incrementing column is used to check which rows have been added since last query. 

Author: Moved to headers and expanded to cover examples

  
  The column name will be passed via the ``incrementing.column.name`` parameter

* ``timestamp``: the connector will query the table appending a ``WHERE`` condition based on a **timestamp column(s)**. This requires the presence of one or more columns containing the row's creation date and modification date. 

  In cases of two columns (e.g. ``creation_date`` and ``modification_date``) the polling query will apply the ``COALESCENCE`` function, parsing the value of the second column only when the first column is null. 
  
  The timestamp column(s) can be passed via the ``timestamp.column.name parameter``.

* ``timestamp+incrementing``: this last mode uses both the incrementing and timestamp functionalities with ``incrementing.column.name`` selecting the incremental column and ``timestamp.column.name`` the timestamp one(s).

> Check out the `Aiven JDBC source connector documentation <https://github.com/aiven/jdbc-connector-for-apache-kafka/blob/master/docs/source-connector.md>`_ for more information.

Author: Fixed!
